# Critical bonds for percolated clusters

We here offer two versions of the critical_bonds software that returns the critical bonds for a 2D or 3D undirected bond-connected network of nodes in the presence of periodic boundary conditions: [c++](#c++) and [MATLAB](#MATLAB) versions. Both versions operate on a standardized input file format "cb-input-filename" described below. The input file carries information about the box size, coordinates of nodes, and bonded pairs of nodes. We offer [converters](#converters) to this input file format from other data formats like LAMMPS data files. Other converters will follow. Suggestions for required converters are welcome. The MATLAB version optionally produces graphical output and/or a LAMMPS data file that masks the critical bonds by bond type 2. We offer a number of test configurations in the test-configs subdirectory. 

This software is part of the Supplemental Information of the following publication: 

S. Agrawal, S. Galmarini, M. Kröger, 
Energy formulation for infinite structures: order parameter for percolation, critical bonds and power-law scaling of contact-based transport,
Phys. Rev. Lett. (2024) in press since 12 Apr 2024

         @article{critical-bonds,
                  author = {S. Agrawal and S. Galmarini and M. Kr\"oger}, 
                  title = {Energy formulation for infinite structures: order parameter for percolation, 
                  critical bonds and power-law scaling of contact-based transport},
                  journal = {Phys. Rev. Lett.},
                  year = {2024},
                  volume = {XX},
                  pages = {XX},
                  note = {Code available at https://github.com/agrawalsamarth/critical_bonds}
                  doi = {XX} 
         }

## c++ version<a name="c++">

### Installation

Clone this Github repository. Then install the code via make

         git clone https://github.com/agrawalsamarth/critical_bonds;
         cd critical_bonds; 
         make critical_bonds

Note that Eigen library is required. It comes with this repository. If necessary, it can be installed separately via 

          git clone https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen.git

### Usage

         ./bin/critical_bonds <cb_input_filename> <cb_output_filename>

### Format of the cb_input_filename<a name=input>

For 2D configurations the entries in brackets are absent. The coordinates of the nodes should be between the specified box sizes (xlo, xhi) etc. Node IDs start at 0 and end at number of nodes-1, ie, the first row of the coordinates table corresponds to the node with id 0, and the last row of this table has id number of nodes - 1. These id values are then used to build the corresponding bond table.

    dimensions                     <- space dimension, either 2 or 3
    xlo xhi ylo yhi [zlo zhi]      <- box ranges
    N                              <- number of nodes
    x y [z]                        <- this is the coordinate of node 0
    x y [z]                        <- this is the coordinate of node 1
    ...
    x y [z]                        <- this is the coordinate of node N-1
    number of bonds                <- number of bonded pairs of nodes
    b1 b2                          <- node b1 is bonded to node b2
    b1 b2                          
    ...
    b1 b2                          <- node b1 is bonded to node b2

#### Example: 

2D Configuration. 5 nodes connected by 7 bonds contained in a periodic box of size [0 1] x [-0.2 1.1]:

    2
    0 1 -0.2 1.1
    5
    0.2 0.3  
    -0.1 0.5 
    0.4 0.2 
    0.8 0.3
    0.7 0.4
    7
    2 3
    0 1
    1 2
    3 1 
    1 4
    4 2
    3 2

### Format of the cb_output_filename

    b1 b2                          <- 1st critical bond between node b1 and node b2
    b1 b2                          <- 2nd critical bond between node b1 and node b2
    ...
    b1 b2                          <- last critical bond between node b1 and node b2

## MATLAB version<a name="MATLAB">

The MATLAB version is contained in the MATLAB subdirectory. For its description see [here](MATLAB).

## Converters<a name="converters">

### Convert from LAMMPS data format to cb_input_filename

         perl convert-lammps-data-2-cb.pl <lammps-data-filename> [-o <cb_input-filename>]

where outputfile is formatted according to the [above](#input) section so that it can be used directly. Note that LAMMPS dump files cannot be used as they do not contain the bond information. If called without argument, this command returns its command syntax. 

### Convert from mol2 format to cb_input_filename

### Convert output file generated by critical_bonds to LAMMPS data format

         perl convert-critical-bonds-2-data.pl <cb_input-filename> <cb_output-filename> <lammps-data-filename>

If called without argument, this command returns its command syntax. 
